# Pascal 200 Compiler (2022-23)

## Description

The `Pascal-200-Compiler-2022-23` project is an implementation of the first two stages of a Pascal 200 compiler: the Lexical Analyzer and the Syntax Analyzer. This project is designed to analyze Pascal code, break it down into tokens, and verify its syntactical correctness based on defined grammar rules.

## Key Components

### 1. Lexical Analyzer (`lexer.l`, `lexer.h`)
The Lexical Analyzer is responsible for tokenizing the input Pascal code. It identifies keywords, operators, identifiers, and other elements of the language.

- **`lexer.l`**: Defines the lexical rules using Flex to identify the tokens.
- **`lexer.h`**: Contains the definitions and declarations used by the lexer.

### 2. Syntax Analyzer (`bison.y`)
The Syntax Analyzer takes the tokens generated by the Lexical Analyzer and applies grammatical rules to check if the code conforms to Pascal syntax.

- **`bison.y`**: Implements the grammar rules using Bison to parse the token stream.

### 3. Transition Diagram (`Diagram_Terminals.c`, `Διάγραμμα Μετάβασης` folder)
The Transition Diagram represents the finite state machine used for parsing and recognizing language constructs.

- **`Diagram_Terminals.c`**: The implementation of the transition diagram in C.
- **`Διάγραμμα Μετάβασης` folder**: Contains detailed documentation and diagrams of the transition states.

### 4. Commands and Execution (`commands.sh`)
A shell script to automate the compilation and execution process.

- **`commands.sh`**: Script to compile and run the lexer and parser.

### 5. Execution Instructions (`Run.txt` files)
Each folder includes a `Run.txt` file providing instructions on how to compile and execute the components of the project.

- **Lexical Analyzer**: Instructions in the `Run.txt` file within the corresponding folder.
- **Syntax Analyzer**: Instructions in the `Run.txt` file within the corresponding folder.

## Prerequisites

- **Flex**: To compile the `lexer.l` file.
```bash
    sudo apt install flex
```
- **Bison**: To compile the `bison.y` file.
```bash
    sudo apt install bison
```
- **GCC**: For compiling the C files.
- **Linux Environment**: The project is designed to be run on a Linux environment.

## Running the Project

1. **Clone the Repository:**

- Clone the repository and navigate to the project's folder.

```bash
    git clone https://github.com/dbouros/Pascal-200-Compiler-2022-23.git
    cd Pascal-200-Compiler-2022-23
```

2. **Run:**

- Give permissions to the shell script `commands.sh`.

```bash
    chmod +x commands.sh
```

- Run the shell script.

```bash
    ./commands.sh
```

## Disclaimer

This repository includes code and/or content derived from various sources. If any content within this repository is recognized as the work of others or if information about its origin becomes available, please make contact to ensure proper attribution can be provided. 
